---
layout: post
title: Ada Tutorial
date: 2020-10-25 14:05:21 +0800
tags: Main
color: rgb(125,95,80)
cover: 'https://pic2.zhimg.com/50/d510846f71f640a2997fa04c7849015f_720w.jpg?source=54b3c3a5'
subtitle: 'Version 2.5 - February 1, 1998'
---
# Ada Tutorial #

<A HREF="https://perso.telecom-paristech.fr/pautet/Ada95/a95list.htm">访问原网站</A>

<P>本教程将教与你95种ada编程语言语法。其由33章组成，务必按主题顺序学习,其内容是按逻辑顺序介绍的，并建立在前面介绍的主题之基础上。
请下载示例程序的源代码，然后编译并执行每个程序。勤奋的学生将尝试修改示例程序，然后重新编译并执行它，以了解该程序所研究的材料。这将为学生使用他们的编译器提供宝贵的经验。

<P>我们推荐的研究方法是打印一章或两章的文本，下载示例程序，并在编译器和编辑器中运行示例程序进行学习。成功完成每章后，可下载其他章节作为衍生。

<P>请注意，完成本教程的第一部分将使学生能够在Ada中编写基本的程序，但完成第二部分将使学生能够使用Ada的所有功能。

<P><B>英文原文 Version 2.5 - February 1, 1998</B>

<P>The original for this page is located at <A HREF="http://www.swcp.com/~dodrill/a95doc/a95list.htm">http://www.swcp.com/~dodrill/a95doc/a95list.htm</A>
and is the only fully authorized site for distribution of this tutorial.
Many persons have downloaded one or more of our tutorials for redistribution
without our consent, and occasionally do not include all of the components
needed for the complete package. You can be assured that the tutorial will
be complete and up to date only at the home site, since we have no control
over the actions of other web site operators.

<P>This tutorial is distributed as shareware which means that you do not
have to pay to use it. However, the author spent a good deal of time and
financial resources to develop this tutorial and requests that you share
in the financial burden in a very small way, but only if you felt the tutorial
was valuable to you as an aid in learning to program in Ada. If you wish
to remit a small payment to the author, full instructions for doing so
will be given by clicking the link below. I hope you find programming in
Ada to be rewarding and profitable. I personally think Ada is the best
language to use for a large project with more than a single programmer
because of the careful interface checking done by the compiler.

<P><A HREF="order.htm">How to Remit Payment For this Tutorial!</A>

<P><B>Part 1 - Beginning Ada 95 Tutorial</B>
<DL>
<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/intro.htm">Introduction</A> - What is Ada and why study it?</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap01.htm">Chapter 1</A> - Getting Started</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap02.htm">Chapter 2</A> - Program Structure</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap03.htm">Chapter 3</A> - The Integer Type Variable</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap04.htm">Chapter 4</A> - Logical Compares &amp; precedence</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap05.htm">Chapter 5</A> - Control Structures</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap06.htm">Chapter 6</A> - Additional Scalar Types</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap07.htm">Chapter 7</A> - Derived Types</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap08.htm">Chapter 8</A> - Subprograms</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap09.htm">Chapter 9</A> - Blocks and Scope of variables</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap10.htm">Chapter 10</A> - Arrays</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap11.htm">Chapter 11</A> - The Character &amp; String Type</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap12.htm">Chapter 12</A> - Records</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap13.htm">Chapter 13</A> - The Access Type Variable</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap14.htm">Chapter 14</A> - Input/Output</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap15.htm">Chapter 15</A> - Packages</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap16.htm">Chapter 16</A> - Example Programs</DT>


<P><B>Part 2 - Advanced Ada 95 Tutorial</B>
<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap17.htm">Chapter 17</A> - Exceptions</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap18.htm">Chapter 18</A> - Advanced Subprogram Topics</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap19.htm">Chapter 19</A> - Advanced Array Topics</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap20.htm">Chapter 20</A> - Advanced Record Topics</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap21.htm">Chapter 21</A> - Advanced Packages &amp; Private Types</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap22.htm">Chapter 22</A> - Object Oriented Programming</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap23.htm">Chapter 23</A> - More Object Oriented Programming</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap24.htm">Chapter 24</A> - Binary Input/Output</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap25.htm">Chapter 25</A> - Dynamic Allocation</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap26.htm">Chapter 26</A> - Tasking</DT>

<DT>
  <A HREF="/ada95/chap27.htm">Chapter 27</A> - The Simple Rendezvous</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap28.htm">Chapter 28</A> - The Conditional Rendezvous</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap29.htm">Chapter 29</A> - Additional Tasking Topics</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap30.htm">Chapter 30</A> - Generic Subprograms</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap31.htm">Chapter 31</A>- Generic Packages</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap32.htm">Chapter 32</A> - Control of Representation</DT>

<DT>
<A HREF="/ada95/chap33.htm">Chapter 33</A> - More Example Programs</DT>
</DL>
The source code and the answers for part 1 should be kept in a separate
directory from those given for part 2 because some of the file names are
repeated. This is done to illustrate evolution of software techniques as
additional constructs are studied. All of the HTML documentation, however,
should be placed in a single directory.

<P><A HREF="ftp://ftp.swcp.com/pub/users/dodrill/a95htm1.zip">Download
HTML Documentation for Ada 95 Part 1</A> - (a95html.zip) Download the Introduction
and Chapters 1 to 16 in one packed file. This file (about 132k) contains
the 17 files mentioned (plus the diagrams) which can be downloaded and
unpacked for use locally. The content of this file is identical to the
content of those 17 files. There are no executable files in this group
of files.

<P><A HREF="ftp://ftp.swcp.com/pub/users/dodrill/a95src1.zip">Source Code
for Ada 95 Part 1</A> - (a95src1.zip) Download all example programs. This
file (about 48k) contains 86 source files which are all explained in the
16 chapters of text. There are no executable files in this group of files.

<P><A HREF="ftp://ftp.swcp.com/pub/users/dodrill/a95ans1.zip">Answers to
Exercises for Ada 95 Part 1</A>- (a95ans1.zip) Download the authors answers
to all of the programming exercises. This file (about 20k) contains 37
source files. There are no executable files in this group of files.

<P><A HREF="ftp://ftp.swcp.com/pub/users/dodrill/a95htm2.zip">Download
HTML Documentation for Ada 95 Part 2</A>- (a95htm2.zip) Download the Introduction
and Chapters 17 to 33 in one packed file. This file (about 144k) contains
the 17 files mentioned (plus the diagrams) which can be downloaded and
unpacked for use locally. The content of this file is identical to the
content of those 17 files. There are no executable files in this group
of files. These files when unpacked, should be placed in the same directory
as the documentation files from Part 1 of this tutorial.

<P><A HREF="ftp://ftp.swcp.com/pub/users/dodrill/a95src2.zip">Source Code
for Ada 95 Part 2</A>- (a95src2.zip) Download all example programs. This
file (about 67k) contains 100 source files which are all explained in the
15 chapters of text. There are no executable files in this group of files.

<P><A HREF="ftp://ftp.swcp.com/pub/users/dodrill/a95ans2.zip">Answers to
Exercises for Ada 95 Part 2</A>- (a95ans2.zip) Download the authors answers
to all of the programming exercises. This file (about 29k) contains 39
source files. There are no executable files in this group of files.

<P><A HREF="ftp://ftp.swcp.com/pub/users/dodrill/pkunzip.exe">pkunzip executable</A>
- (pkunzip.exe) Download pkunzip.exe version 2.04 to unzip the source code.
This executable is pre-registered for your use in unzipping any Coronado
Enterprises tutorial files. It will unpack and generate the zipped files
in the current directory and all will be ASCII source code files. To unzip
the source code files for Ada 95 part 1, execute the following DOS command;
<PRE>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; pkunzip a95src1.zip</PRE>
Or, to unzip the answers to programming exercises for Ada 95 part 1, execute
the following DOS command;
<PRE>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; pkunzip a95ans1.zip</PRE>

<HR width="100%"><I>Copyright &copy; 1988-1998 Coronado Enterprises
- Last update, February 1, 1998</I>
<BR><I>Gordon Dodrill - dodrill@swcp.com - </I><A HREF="mailto:dodrill@swcp.com">Please
email any comments or suggestions.</A>
